async-hooks: introduce async-storage API (#26540)
nodejs/node: doc/api/async_hooks.md

If the callback throws an error, `runAndReturn` and `exitAndReturn` will throw
it too.

These methods provide good scoping while being synchronous.

#### What are the risks of `enterSync/exitSync`
These methods are to be used only if you know what you are doing. After calling
`enterSync`, the context will be propagated to everything that follows.
For instance, in the case of an event emitter, if the first executed listener
calls `enterSync`, the following ones will have access to the store.
```js
emitter.on('event', () => {
    asyncContext.enterSync();
});
emitter.on('event', () => {
    asyncContext.getStore(); // will return  the store.
});
```
If an instance of AsyncContext is used for error management (for instance with
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback`). All exceptions will be
associated with the context.

These methods are less safe than `run/exit` and `runAndReturn/exitAndReturn` as
they have no scope.

### new AsyncContext()

* Returns: {Object}

Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Storage is only provided inside a `run`
 method call.

### asyncContext.run(callback)

* `callback` {Function}
  * `store` {Map}

> Calling `asyncContext.enter(callback)` will create a new asynchronous context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling `asyncContext.run(callback)` will create a new asynchronous context.
```

This method will call the callback with a `Map` known as the store as argument.

> The callback will be ran asynchronously.

Reviewer: Maybe add some comment that any exception thrown by `callback` is unhandled.

Author: Good point, will do

This store will be persistent through the following asynchronous calls.

Currently there is a known limitation with this method. If called within an
`async function` the context will be lost after the next `await` call.

### asyncContext.exit(callback)

* `callback` {Function}

Calling `asyncContext.exit(callback)` will exit the context.
Asynchronous operations following the callback cannot access the

>  store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 store but its still available for the sync part after `exit()`.
```

The callback will be ran asynchronously.

Currently there is a known limitation with this method. If called within an
`async function` the context will be still available after the next `await`
call.

> ### asyncContext.runAndReturn(callback)

Reviewer: Consider to allow passing arguments to callback similar as in `domain.run()`

Author: make sense. Will add that.

* `callback` {Function}

This methods runs a function synchronously within a context and return its return
value. The store is not accessible outside of the callback function.

> Id the callback function throws an error, this method will throw and error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Id the callback function throws an error, this method will forward the exception but ensure that the context is correctly exited.
```

> ### asyncContext.exitAndReturn(callback)

Reviewer: Consider to allow passing arguments to callback similar as in `domain.run()`

Author: make sense. Will add that.

These methods are to be used only if you know what you are doing. After calling
`enterSync`, the context will be propagated to everything that follows.
For instance, in the case of an event emitter, if the first executed listener
calls `enterSync`, the following ones will have access to the store.
```js
emitter.on('event', () => {
    asyncContext.enterSync();
});
emitter.on('event', () => {
    asyncContext.getStore(); // will return  the store.
});
```
If an instance of AsyncContext is used for error management (for instance with
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback`). All exceptions will be
associated with the context.

These methods are less safe than `run/exit` and `runAndReturn/exitAndReturn` as
they have no scope.

### new AsyncContext()

* Returns: {Object}

Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Storage is only provided inside a `run`
 method call.

### asyncContext.run(callback[, ...args])

* `callback` {Function}
  * `store` {Map}
* `...args` {any}

Calling `asyncContext.run(callback)` will create a new asynchronous context.
This method will call the callback with a `Map` known as the store as argument.
The callback will be ran asynchronously.

> If an error is thrown by the callback function. It won't ba caught by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an error is thrown by the callback function. It won't be caught by a
```

a `try/catch` block as the callback is ran in a new asynchronous resource.

Optionally, arguments can be passed to the function after the store.

This store will be persistent through the following asynchronous calls.

Currently there is a known limitation with this method. If called within an
`async function` the context will be lost after the next `await` call.

### asyncContext.exit(callback[, ...args])

* `callback` {Function}
  * `store` {Map}
* `...args` {any}

Calling `asyncContext.exit(callback)` will exit the context.
Asynchronous operations following the callback cannot access the
 store but its still available for the sync part after `exit()`.
The callback will be ran asynchronously.

Optionally, arguments can be passed to the function.

If an error is thrown by the callback function. It won't ba caught by a
a `try/catch` block as the callback is ran in a new asynchronous resource.

Currently there is a known limitation with this method. If called within an
`async function` the context will be still available after the next `await`
call.

### asyncContext.runAndReturn(callback[, ...args])

* `callback` {Function}

>   * `store` {Map}

Reviewer: Not sure if it is helpful to pass `store` here as it requires the user to change the signature of the function passed.
I assume here that it happens frequently that it's just needed to wrap some call with a new context and the easy way would be to just wrap it by `rc = context.runAndReturn(cb, original args)`.
The store can be accessed anyway via `context.getStore()`. And I think it's much saver to use `getStore()` as the callback passed may have further calls to enter/exit or awaits.

Author: make sense! I'm changing that now

Id the callback function throws an error, this method will forward the exception but ensure that the context is correctly exited.

Optionally, arguments can be passed to the function.

### asyncContext.exitAndReturn(callback[, ...args])

* `callback` {Function}
  * `store` {Map}
* `...args` {any}

This methods runs a function synchronously outside a context and return its return
value. The store is not accessible within the callback function.
Id the callback function throws an error, this method will throw and error.

Optionally, arguments can be passed to the function after the store.

### asyncContext.enterSync();

This function enables context propagation and returns the store.
The following synchronous code and the asynchronous methods called after
`enterSync` have access to the store.

### asyncContext.exitSync();

This function disbale context propagation.
The following synchronous code and the asynchronous methods called after
`exitSync` have no more access to the store.

### asyncContext.getStore()

* Returns: {Map}

This methods returns the current store.
If this method is called  outside of an asynchronous context initialized by

> calling `asyncContext.run` will return `undefined`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calling `asyncContext.run`, `asyncContext.runAndReturn` or `asyncContext.enterSync`  will return `undefined`.
```

* Returns: {number} The same `triggerAsyncId` that is passed to the
`AsyncResource` constructor.

> ## Class: AsyncContext

Reviewer 2: node-addon-api also has a class [`Napi::AsyncContext`](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-api/blob/master/doc/async_context.md), so this may be confusing.

Author: Good point! I am totally ok with changing name to something like `AsyncStorage` or `AsyncLocal(s)` if there is a consencus on something.

Reviewer: I would use `AsyncLocal` only if it is similar to the [.NET `AsyncLocal`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.asynclocal-1?view=netframework-4.8) otherwise just other users get confused.

Author: I don't have any strong opinions here. AsyncLocal works for me.

However, let's keep AsyncContext until a decision is made regarding which PR will ber merged. It is handy to refer at this PR as AsyncContext and the other one as AsyncLocal.

```js
const { AsyncContext } = require('async_hooks');
const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncContext = new AsyncContext();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncContext.getStore();
  // Make sure the store exists and it contains a request.
  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);
    // Prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncContext.run((store) => {
    store.set(kReq, request);
    someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {
      if (err) {
        log('ERR', err.message);
      }
    });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

### new AsyncContext()

* Returns: {Object}

Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Storage is only provided inside a `run`
 method call.

### asyncContext.run(callback)

* `callback` {Function}
  * `store` {Map}

Calling `asyncContext.enter(callback)` will create a new asynchronous context.
This method will call the callback with a `Map` known as the store as argument.

This store will be persistent through the following asynchronous calls.

> ### asyncContext.exit(callback)

Author: Exit is missing a test

HTTP request to it.

```js
const { AsyncContext } = require('async_hooks');
const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncContext = new AsyncContext();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncContext.getStore();
  // Let's make sure the store exists and it contains a request
  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);
    // For instance, prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncContext.enter((store) => {
      store.set(kReq, request);
      // some code
       someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {
        if (err){
          log('ERR', err.message);
          // ... rest of the code
        }
      });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

### new AsyncContext()

Creates a new instance of AsyncContext. Until the `enter` method is called, it
does not provide any storage features.

### asyncContext.enter(callback)

Calling `asyncContext.enter(callback)` will create a new asynchronous context.
This method will call the callback with a `Map` known as the store as argument.

> 

Reviewer 3: It should be clarified what happens when you create and enter a different `AsyncContext` from within an existing one... and that should be added to the test.

Author: Will do!

Author: Finally, done it!

* Returns: {number} The same `triggerAsyncId` that is passed to the
`AsyncResource` constructor.

> ## Class: AsyncStorage

Reviewer 4: can this be renamed to AsyncContext? storage tends to imply some level of persistence, and the term "context" is already used a bunch in describing them as its a fairly apt term.

Author: Good one. I was not fan of AsyncClosure but context lgtm

> ## Class: AsyncContext

Author: 🙏 Right now, this kind of API is much needed in the Node.js world. Maybe in a future iteration Zones will be back :)

> This class is used to create contexts that can be used through the event loop.

Reviewer 3: This really isn't that clear. An example here would be helpful.

Reviewer 3: Moving the example below up would be sufficient.

Author: Good point. will do.

> This class is used to create contexts that can be used through the event loop.

Reviewer 5: The phrasing through the event loop isn't clear and I wouldn't have understood what it does from just reading that.

Maybe:

```suggestion
This class is used to create asynchronous state between callbacks and promise chain. It allows you to keep variables throughout the lifetime of a web request or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to what ThreadLocal storage is in other languages.
```

Author: LGTM, thanks for the suggestion!

> This class is used to create asynchronous state between callbacks and promise chain. It allows you to keep variables throughout the lifetime of a web request or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to what ThreadLocal storage is in other languages.

Reviewer 6: We usually wrap at 80 characters per line :) Also, typo: `promise chains`
```

Author: Good catch. Just fixed it!

### Example

Let's build a logger that will always know the current HTTP request and use
it to display enhanced logs without needing to explicitly pass the current
HTTP request to it.

```js

> const { AsyncContext } = require('async_storage');

Reviewer 7: This should now be const { AsyncContext } = require('util');

Author: Ack, good catch

const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncContext = new AsyncContext();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncContext.getStore();
  // Let's make sure the store exists and it contains a request
  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);
    // For instance, prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncContext.run((store) => {
      store.set(kReq, request);
      // some code
       someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {

>         if (err){

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        if (err) {
```

(I *think* our linter should also catch this in the docs?)

      log('ERR', err.message);
      // ... rest of the code
    }
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

### new AsyncContext()

Creates a new instance of AsyncContext. Until the `enter` method is called, it
does not provide any storage features.

### asyncContext.enter()

> Calling `asyncContext.enter()` will create a new asynchronous context.

Reviewer 7: One different here from what I see in some other cls implementations (for example 'continuation-local-storage') is that this seems to force you to pass around the store returned as opposed to creating it with a namespace that can later be used to retrieve it.

Reviewer 4: another pattern to consider is zones

https://github.com/domenic/zones
https://gist.github.com/devsnek/4128215236f40dc7939b269a50db5646

Reviewer 7: With the name you can do something like `const parentSpan = cls.getNamespace('http').get('span');` as opposed to having access to  the AsyncContext that was created earlier.  On the other hand with `continuation-local-storage`  there was extra of binding a namespace object to functions (or running function with the run command) .

> Creates a new instance of AsyncContext. Until the `enter` method is called, it

Author: Thanks for the pointer. I'll update

This method returns a `Map` known as the store.

This store will be persistent through the following asynchronous calls.

### asyncContext.exit()

> 

Reviewer 7: I'll agree with some of the other comments that I'm not sure how/when I should call exit or what it will do for me (I'll admit I did not look at the implementation, only move some code using continuous-local-storage over to use these new apis)

Author: LGTM, let's remove `exit` ^^

Reviewer 5: Can one do this just by calling `.create` and get an empty map? 

How does composing contexts work here?

Author: @benjamingr I am not a big fan of exit personally. I see a use case for it and it's probably clearer than starting a new trace with an empty map.

Contexts are independent from each others.

Reviewer 5: This thing (async context) is implemented in other languages and libraries as well right? What does C# do? What do zones do in JavaScript? What does CLS do?

Reviewer 5: Ah, the independence is achieved by having to hold an actual asyncStorage instance in order to get access to the data. Makes sense, this is different from other systems but I kind of like it.

Author: This is mainly a ext step from the CLS and the diverse implementation found in JS in APMs code.
 
C# has a simillar API named `AsyncLocal` (based on my understanding of a discussion with a cvoworker tbh.

Author: Yes, accessing the `asyncStorage` is on the user's responsibility. Which doesn't prevent anyone from attaching it to `process` and rebuild the CLS over this.

or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to what ThreadLocal storage is
 in other languages.

### Example

Let's build a logger that will always know the current HTTP request and use
it to display enhanced logs without needing to explicitly pass the current
HTTP request to it.

```js
const { AsyncContext } = require('async_hooks');
const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncContext = new AsyncContext();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncContext.getStore();
  // Let's make sure the store exists and it contains a request
  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);
    // For instance, prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncContext.run((store) => {
      store.set(kReq, request);
      // some code
       someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {
        if (err) {
          log('ERR', err.message);
          // ... rest of the code
        }
      });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

### new AsyncContext()
* Returns: {AsyncContext}

> Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Until the `enter` method is called, it

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Storage is only provided inside a `run` method call.
```

Or something similar maybe?

* Returns: {number} The same `triggerAsyncId` that is passed to the
`AsyncResource` constructor.

## Class: AsyncContext
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

This class is used to create asynchronous state between callbacks and promise
chains. It allows you to keep variables throughout the lifetime of a web request

> or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to what ThreadLocal storage is

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to thread local storage
```

Also, it looks like the next line starts with an unnecessary space.

 in other languages.

> ### Example

Reviewer 8: I don't think you need a separate header for the example - just start a new paragraph.

> Let's build a logger that will always know the current HTTP request and use

Reviewer 8: The API documentation should avoid language like "Let's build a logger." Instead, maybe go with "The following example builds a logger..."

it to display enhanced logs without needing to explicitly pass the current
HTTP request to it.

```js
const { AsyncContext } = require('async_hooks');
const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncContext = new AsyncContext();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncContext.getStore();

>   // Let's make sure the store exists and it contains a request

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  // Make sure the store exists and it contains a request.
```

  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);

>     // For instance, prints `GET /items ERR could not do something

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    // Prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
```

    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncContext.run((store) => {
      store.set(kReq, request);

>       // some code

Reviewer 8: I'd just remove this comment.

>        someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {

Reviewer 8: Indentation looks off here.

        if (err) {
          log('ERR', err.message);

>           // ... rest of the code

Reviewer 8: I'd remove this comment as well.

        }
      });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

### new AsyncContext()

Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Storage is only provided inside a `run` method call.

> does not provide any storage features.

Reviewer 8: Can you make this a complete sentence?

### asyncContext.run(callback)

* `callback` {Function}
  * `store` {Map}

Calling `asyncContext.enter(callback)` will create a new asynchronous context.
This method will call the callback with a `Map` known as the store as argument.

This store will be persistent through the following asynchronous calls.

### asyncContext.exit(callback)

* `callback` {Function}

> Calling `asyncContext.exit(callback)` will exit the context. None of the

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Calling `asyncContext.exit(callback)` will exit the context.
```

> asynchronous operations happening from the callback call will have access to the

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
Asynchronous operations following the callback cannot access the
```

 store.

### asyncContext.getStore()

* Returns: {Map}

> Calling this method outside of an asynchronous context initialized by calling

Reviewer 8: I'd reword this so that the case where `undefined` is returned comes last.

#### When to choose `run/exit`
These methods are asynchronous. They are called with a callback function that
runs within a new asynchronous call. This is the most explicit behavior as
everything that is executed within the callback of `run` (including further
asynchronous operations) will have access to the store. The `exit` method has
a similar behavior to stop context propagation.

If an instance of AsyncLocal is used for error management (for instance with
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback`). Only the exceptions thrown
in the scope of the callback function will be associated with the context.

These methods are the safest to call as they provide strong scoping.

#### When to choose `runAndReturn/exitAndReturn`
These methods are synchronous and scoped. The callback function will be executed
synchronously and it's return value will be returned by `runAndReturn`
and `exitAndReturn`. The store will only be accessible from within the callback
function and the asynchronous operations created within this scope.
If the callback throws an error, `runAndReturn` and `exitAndReturn` will throw
it too.

These methods provide good scoping while being synchronous.

> 

Reviewer 9: From reading the documentation, it's not entirely clear to me how to use run & exit API in code base using purely Promises, `async` functions and `await` keyword.

Consider a [Koa](https://www.npmjs.com/package/koa) middleware setting up a per-request async storage:

```js
app.use(async (ctx, next) => {
  // create a new scope
  await next();
  // exit the scope
});
```

My first try would be something along the following lines. It looks rather hacky to me, will it even work as intended?

```js
const { AsyncLocal } = require('async_hooks');
const { promisify } = require('util');

const asyncLocal = new AsyncLocal();
asyncLocal.runAsync = promisify(asyncLocal.run);
asyncLocal.exitAsync = promisify(asyncLocal.exit);

const Koa = require('koa');
const app = new Koa();

app.use(async setupClsScope(ctx, next) => {
  await asyncLocal.runAsync();
  await next();
  await asyncLocal.exitAsync();
});
```

Also: what is the interaction of this new feature (async storage) with zero-cost async stack traces provided by V8 for async/await based code? (See https://v8.dev/blog/fast-async#improved-developer-experience). In my example code shown above, when an error is thrown from `exit`, the stack trace should include `setupClsScope` frame. How is this going to work with the callback-based implementation?

Author: That's two great questions:
-> zero-cost async stack traces: in theory this has no impact as this is an orthogonal topic (on me to check that deeper)

-> Koa use case:
I have experimented a couple things and I need to dig deeper before giving you a precise answer. @Flarna, @Qard , given the experimentations, I think the easiest way to cover this with the current system is to re-enable `enterSync/`exitSync` and to call them before and after `await next()`. But I am not sure I have looked hard enough into the issue yet. I had a packed Thursday, hopefully Friday and/or Saturday will be easier on me.

Reviewer: I fear that `run`/`exit` are not nice regarding zero-cost async stack traces as they use `process.nextTick` internally but  zero-cost async stack traces work only from `await` to `await`.

Reviewer: Regarding the koa use case I think that the following should work:
```js
app.use(async (ctx, next) => {
  await asyncLocal.runAndReturn(next);
});
```
This should be also fine regarding zero-cost async stack traces as `runAndReturn` as a sync function directly calling `next` and forwards return value.

Author: I have played around with 
I guess a solution would be to allow no callback to be passed to `runAndReturn/exitAndReturn`, it would give us the following cases:

```js
localStorage.runAndReturn();
localStorage.getStore() === undefined // tre

await localStorage.runAndReturn();
localStorage.getStore() // storage available
await localStorage.exitAndReturn();
``` 
In the second case, the store is still scoped to the promise chain. In that case, `runAndReturn/exitAndReturn` are not proper name anymore however.

Author: @Flarna this is correct. The noticeable thing is that the context is still available in the rest of the promise chain (which is the logical behavior):
```js
app.use(async (ctx, next) => {
  await asyncLocal.runAndReturn(next);
  asyncLocal.getStore() // returns the store
});
```

This can be exited with
```js
await asyncLocal.exitAndReturn(() => Promise.resolve());
```

Author: I will update the doc to describe this.

Reviewer: > ```js
> app.use(async (ctx, next) => {
>   await asyncLocal.runAndReturn(next);
>   asyncLocal.getStore() // returns the store
> });
> ```

If this is true then `runAndReturn` has a bug as it should exit the scope before returning.

Reviewer 9: > I will update the doc to describe this.

Awesome, such documentation would be super helpful.

Do we have any advice for people not using Koa-style `next`? For example:

```ts
#!/usr/bin/env node

main().catch(err => {
  console.error('Script failed.', err);
  process.exit(1);
});

async function main() {
  // TBD: create a new scope
  const data = await doSomeStuff();
  const result = await doSomethingElse(data);
  console.log(result);
  // TBD: exit the scope (maybe not needed)?
}
```

}
```

## Class: AsyncLocalStorage
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

This class is used to create asynchronous state between callbacks and promise

> chains. It allows you to keep variables throughout the lifetime of a web request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
chains. It allows keeping variables throughout the lifetime of a web request
```

or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to thread local storage

>  in other languages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in other languages.
```

request and use it to display enhanced logs without needing to explicitly pass
the current HTTP request to it.

```js
const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('async_hooks');
const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncLocalStorage = new AsyncLocalStorage();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
  // Make sure the store exists and it contains a request.
  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);
    // Prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncLocalStorage.run(() => {
    const store = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
    store.set(kReq, request);
    someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {
      if (err) {
        log('ERR', err.message);
      }
    });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

When having multiple instance of `AsyncLocalStorage`, they are independant
from each others. It is safe to instanciate this class multiple times.

### Choosing between asynchronous and synchronous methods

#### When to choose `run`

> This method is asynchronous. It is called with a callback function that

Reviewer 3: The organization of the doc here is a bit confusing. Here it talks about when to start using `run()` but the method itself is not introduced until later in the doc. Specifically, in the statement `This method is asynchronous...`, it's not clear *what* method

Author: Agreed, I can move this part after the API documentaiton part.

Author: Done

Author: Done

runs within a new asynchronous call. This is the most explicit behavior as
everything that is executed within the callback of `run` (including further
asynchronous operations) will have access to the store.

If an instance of AsyncLocalStorage is used for error management (for instance
with `process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback`). Only the exceptions thrown
in the scope of the callback function will be associated with the context.

This method the safest to call as it provides strong scoping and consistent
behavior.

It can't be promisified using `util.promisify`. If needed, the `Promise`

> constructor can be used.

Reviewer 3: This should be clarified with an example, or if possible, a custom `util.promisify` impl can be provided?

Author: Sure. I will remove `enter/exit` after rebase on #30959 and remodel slightly the API - I will add an example at this time

Author: Change made. The doc should be clearer

These two methods provide dangerous, yet powerful, means to run code within a
context.
`enter` should never be called without `exit` and it is advised to have the
two calls close to each others. Otherwise the code can run in a unpredictable
state.
For instance, with an event emitter:
```js
emitter.on('event', () => {
  asyncLocalStorage.enter();
});
emitter.on('event', () => {
  // This code will run within the context
});
emitter.on('event', () => {
  asyncLocalStorage.exit();
});
emitter.on('event', () => {
  // This code will run outside of the context
});
```
For this example, using `runSyncAndReturn` or `run` is way safer and clearer.

#### Usage with `async/await`
If, within an async function, only one `await` call is to run within a context,
the following pattern should be used:
```js
async function fn() {
  asyncLocalStorage.enter();
  try {
    await someFunction();
  } finally {
    asyncLocalStorage.exit();
  }
}
```
The use of `finally` in this example guarantees that the context is exited
after the call to `someFunction`.

### new AsyncLocalStorage()

* Returns: {Object}

Creates a new instance of `AsyncContext`. Storage is only provided inside a `run`

>  method call.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
method call.
```

}
```

## Class: AsyncLocalStorage
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME

> -->

Reviewer 3: Is this going to be landed initially as experimental? If so, needs an indicator here.

Reviewer 6: All of async_hooks is still experimental … ;)

Reviewer 3: ah, right, carry on then ;-)

in other languages.

The following example builds a logger that will always know the current HTTP
request and uses it to display enhanced logs without needing to explicitly
provide the current HTTP request to it.

```js
const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('async_hooks');
const http = require('http');

const kReq = 'CURRENT_REQUEST';
const asyncLocalStorage = new AsyncLocalStorage();

function log(...args) {
  const store = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
  // Make sure the store exists and it contains a request.
  if (store && store.has(kReq)) {
    const req = store.get(kReq);
    // Prints `GET /items ERR could not do something
    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncLocalStorage.run(() => {
    const store = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
    store.set(kReq, request);
    someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {
      if (err) {
        log('ERR', err.message);
      }
    });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

When having multiple instance of `AsyncLocalStorage`, they are independent
from each others. It is safe to instantiate this class multiple times.

### new AsyncLocalStorage()

> 

Reviewer 3: Each of these should have a YAML block with `added: REPLACEME`

Author: Done!

runs within a new asynchronous call. This is the most explicit behavior as
everything that is executed within the callback of `run` (including further
asynchronous operations) will have access to the store.

If an instance of AsyncLocalStorage is used for error management (for instance
with `process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback`). Only the exceptions thrown
in the scope of the callback function will be associated with the context.

This method the safest to call as it provides strong scoping and consistent
behavior.

It can't be promisified using `util.promisify`. If needed, the `Promise`
constructor can be used:

```js
new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
  asyncLocalStorage.run(() => {
    someFunction((err, result) => {
      if (err) {
        return reject(err);
      }
      return resolve(result);
    });
  });
});
```

#### When to choose `runSyncAndReturn`
`runSyncAndReturn` is synchronous. The callback function will be executed
synchronously and it's return value will be returned by `runAndReturn`.
The store will only be accessible from within the callback
function and the asynchronous operations created within this scope.

> If the callback throws an error, `runAndReturn` will throw it and it will not

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
If the callback throws an error, `runSyncAndReturn` will throw it and it will not
```

be associated with the context.

This method provides good scoping while being synchronous.

#### Usage with `async/await`
If, within an async function, only one `await` call is to run within a context,
the following pattern should be used:
```js
async function fn() {
  await asyncLocalStorage.runSyncAndReturn(() => {
    asyncLocalStorage.getStore().set('key', value);

>     return foo(); // The return value of someFunction will be awaited

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    return foo(); // The return value of foo will be awaited
```

    console.log(req.method, req.url, ...args);
  } else {
    console.log(...args);
  }
}

http.createServer((request, response) => {
  asyncLocalStorage.run(() => {
    const store = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
    store.set(kReq, request);
    someAsyncOperation((err, result) => {
      if (err) {
        log('ERR', err.message);
      }
    });
  });
})
.listen(8080);
```

When having multiple instances of `AsyncLocalStorage`, they are independent
from each other. It is safe to instantiate this class multiple times.

### `new AsyncLocalStorage()`
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

Creates a new instance of `AsyncLocalStorage`. Store is only provided within a
`run` or a `runSyncAndReturn` method call.

### `asyncLocalStorage.disable()`
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

This method disables the instance of `AsyncLocalStorage`. All subsequent calls
to `asyncLocalStorage.getStore()` will return `undefined` until
`asyncLocalStorage.run()` or `asyncLocalStorage.runSyncAndReturn()`
is called again.

When calling `asyncLocalStorage.disable()`, all current contexts linked to the
instance will be exited.

Calling `asyncLocalStorage.disable()` is required before the

> `asyncLocalStorage` can be garbage collected.

Reviewer 11: Maybe elaborate a bit to specify that this refers to the _global_ tracking object and not the per-run/request store object.

Reviewer 12: Addressed in https://github.com/vdeturckheim/node/pull/4

    asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns a Map
    throw new Error();
  });
} catch (e) {
  asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns undefined
  // The error will be caught here
}
```

### `asyncLocalStorage.exitSyncAndReturn(callback[, ...args])`
<!-- YAML
added: REPLACEME
-->

* `callback` {Function}
* `...args` {any}

This methods runs a function synchronously outside of a context and return its
return value. The store is not accessible within the callback function or
the asynchronous operations created within the callback.

Optionally, arguments can be passed to the function. They will be passed to
the callback function.

If the callback function throws an error, it will be thrown by
`exitSyncAndReturn` too. The stacktrace will not be impacted by this call and
the context will be re-entered.

Example:

```js
// Within a call to run or runAsyncAndReturn
try {
  asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns a Map
  asyncLocalStorage.exitSyncAndReturn(() => {
    asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns undefined
    throw new Error();
  });
} catch (e) {
  asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the same Map
  // The error will be caught here
}
```

> ### Choosing between `run` and `runAsyncAndReturn`

Reviewer 12: Addressed in https://github.com/vdeturckheim/node/pull/4
